---
slug: choosing-a-new-laptop-sucks
fulldate: Mon Aug 22 2011 15:43:40 GMT-0500 (CDT)
tags:
title: Choosing a new Laptop Sucks.
id: 9262718045
link: http://anthonymcook.com/post/9262718045/choosing-a-new-laptop-sucks
raw: {"blog_name":"anthonymcook","id":9262718045,"post_url":"http://anthonymcook.com/post/9262718045/choosing-a-new-laptop-sucks","slug":"choosing-a-new-laptop-sucks","type":"text","date":"2011-08-22 20:43:40 GMT","timestamp":1314045820,"state":"published","format":"markdown","reblog_key":"onyDlECd","tags":[],"short_url":"http://tmblr.co/Z8I8zx8e6TnT","summary":"Choosing a new Laptop Sucks.","recommended_source":null,"recommended_color":null,"highlighted":[],"note_count":0,"title":"Choosing a new Laptop Sucks.","body":"<blockquote>\n  <p><em>I really hate buying a new laptop, there&rsquo;s so many options and they&rsquo;re all crap.</em></p>\n</blockquote>\n\n<p><strong>this post is a work in progress</strong></p>\n\n<h1>The Quest Begins..</h1>\n\n<p>I&rsquo;ve gone through Lenovo, Toshiba, Asus, Sager, and even Sony&rsquo;s catalog of notebooks.</p>\n\n<p>During this process I also discovered that HP has a fuckton of laptops on the market right now.</p>\n\n<p>And you know what? <em>Fuck HP</em>.</p>\n\n<h1>What I&rsquo;m looking for in a computer</h1>\n\n<p>Maybe I&rsquo;m not looking for what you&rsquo;re looking for. Probably not in fact, so I&rsquo;ll just lay it all out here and you can figure it out yourself.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Processing Power</strong></li>\n</ul><p>I need raw CPU power for digital signal processing when I&rsquo;m working on music and for running processor intensive test suites and development tools.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Storage Speed - SSD</strong></li>\n</ul><p>For the above reasons, disk access and throughput times are critical for what I do.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Mobility</strong></li>\n</ul><p>I am the Digital Nomad, I travel, I move around, I sit at shops and pop open my laptop at bars and restaurants. The internet is what I <strong>do</strong>, so I need to take it with me wherever I may be. That means smaller and lighter.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Graphics</strong></li>\n</ul><p>You know, I like to play video games sometimes, and I have a collection of games on Steam that I&rsquo;d like to continue playing on my new system. I don&rsquo;t need something cutting edge, but I&rsquo;d really like to be able to play games at least as well as my last laptop.</p>\n\n<p>Somehow I managed to pick out three from the herd that seemed to fit my current needs&hellip;</p>\n\n<h1>ASUS <a href=\"http://www.xoticpc.com/asus-u36sda1-pre-order-p-3112.html\" target=\"_blank\">U36SD-A1</a></h1>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/50067/Intel-Core-i7-2720QM-Processor-%286M-Cache-2_20-GHz%29\" target=\"_blank\">i7-2720QM</a> 2.2-3.3GHz <em>quad</em>-core</li>\n<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/56576/Intel-SSD-510-Series-%28120GB-2_5in-SATA-6Gbs-34nm-MLC%29\" target=\"_blank\">120GB SSD</a></p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> nVidia <a href=\"http://www.nvidia.com/object/product-geforce-gt-520m-us.html\" target=\"_blank\">GT 520M</a> 1024MB with Optimus (using CPU&rsquo;s onboard Intel HD Graphics 3000)</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1366x768</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 8GB</p></li>\n<li><strong>Size:</strong> 13.3&quot;</li>\n<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 3.74lbs</li>\n<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong> 10 hours <em>(probably less due to larger processor than standard)</em></p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1702.35</p></li>\n</ul><h1>Toshiba Tecra <a href=\"http://www.buy.com/prod/toshiba-tecra-r840-s8450-14-0-notebook-intel-core-i7-2620m-2-70ghz-4gb/q/loc/101/221814301.html\" target=\"_blank\">R840-S8450</a></h1>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/52231/Intel-Core-i7-2620M-Processor-%284M-Cache-2_70-GHz%29\" target=\"_blank\">i7-2620M</a> 2.7GHz-3.4GHz dual-core</li>\n<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> I&rsquo;ll have to get an <a href=\"http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16820167050\" target=\"_blank\">aftermarket SSD</a></p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> Radeon HD <a href=\"http://shop.amd.com/US/_layouts/shop/ProductDetails.aspx?productID=100321DDR5OCL&amp;region=us-en\" target=\"_blank\">6450M</a> 512MB <em>or</em> 1024MB <em>(its unclear to me as to which)</em></p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1600 x 900</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 4GB</p></li>\n<li><strong>Size:</strong> 14&quot;</li>\n<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 4.19lbs</li>\n<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong> 7.11 hours</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1,609.98 <em>($1,384.99 base price + $224.99 for the SSD)</em></p></li>\n</ul><h1>Lenovo ThinkPad <a href=\"http://www.buy.com/prod/lenovo-thinkpad-t420s-41716ju-14-led-notebook-core-i7-i7-2620m-2-70ghz/q/loc/101/222037288.html\" target=\"_blank\">T420s 41716JU</a></h1>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/52231/Intel-Core-i7-2620M-Processor-%284M-Cache-2_70-GHz%29\" target=\"_blank\">i7-2620M</a> 2.7-3.4GHz dual-core</li>\n<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> Onboard 160GB SSD</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> nVidia <a href=\"http://www.nvidia.com/object/nvs_techspecs.html\" target=\"_blank\">NVS 4200M</a> 1024MB with Optimus (using CPU&rsquo;s onboard Intel HD Graphics 3000)</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1600 x 900</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 4GB</p></li>\n<li><strong>Size:</strong> 14&quot;</li>\n<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 3.70lbs</li>\n<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong> 5.5 hours</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1,760.99</p></li>\n</ul><h1>What&rsquo;s all this then?</h1>\n\n<p>Who wins? Who gets chosen?</p>\n\n<p>I&rsquo;m still thinking about that, so maybe if I make a list of who wins each category it&rsquo;ll be easier to make a decision..</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Processing Power</strong></li>\n</ul><p>The Asus? Hard to say. It&rsquo;s baseline is lower, but its Turbo combined with 2 extra cores seems like it&rsquo;d blow the other away.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Storage Speed - SSD</strong></li>\n</ul><p>The Lenovo ThinkPad wins here. 160GB SSD is only 40GB more than the 120&rsquo;s I&rsquo;d get for the others, but 40GB can be exactly what you need. My only concern is I don&rsquo;t know what chip or even brand it is. Second place is The Asus, but I could get a better SSD in the Toshiba if I wanted to throw another $1-200 at it.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Graphics</strong></li>\n</ul><p>Much to my surprise the Lenovo Thinkpad&rsquo;s GPU seems to be the best of the three according to <a href=\"http://www.notebookcheck.net/NVIDIA-NVS-4200M.47343.0.html\" target=\"_blank\">NotebookCheck</a>&rsquo;s benchmarks. The Toshiba trails so far behind the other two that it doesn&rsquo;t even show up on the same graph. However the Asus has a lower screen resolution, I suppose to match its more compact size.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Mobility</strong></li>\n</ul><p>The Asus wins for size and weight. Shockingly the Lenovo weighs the same, even with its slightly larger screen. The Toshiba trails here, weighing almost half a pound more.</p>\n\n<p>The Asus is also the thinest.. ridiculously so, it&rsquo;s only 0.75&quot; thats only 0.07&quot; more than the MacBook Air. And the Lenovo is only a bit more at 1&quot;.</p>\n\n<p>However the Lenovo has a 5.5 hour rating, 2 hours less than the Toshiba, and the Asus has a 10 hour rating.. which is likely to plummet after putting in that quad core monstrosity.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Price</strong></li>\n</ul><p>The Toshiba Tecra wins here, clearly. But I&rsquo;ll still want a total of 8GB RAM before all is said and done and that bumps the price up a bit, and it&rsquo;ll cost about the same as the others if I get a comparable SSD. That gives the Asus an edge price-wise at least.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Bonus Round!</strong></li>\n</ul><p>Both the Lenovo and the Tecra have PC ExpressCard slots. That means I won&rsquo;t have to buy a new USB/Firewire Audio Interface. They also have an eSATA port, which is good for my existing external storage device, otherwise I&rsquo;ll be forced to use USB 2.0 (I bought the external device long before 3.0). Also they each have optical drives.. that will go mostly unused.</p>\n\n<p>Both the Lenovo and the Tecra also have fingerprint scanners and track nubs, for whatever that&rsquo;s worth.</p>\n\n<p>Actually the price of the Asus includes a thin external optical drive, and I&rsquo;d rather have it offboard anyway since I&rsquo;ll so rarely use it.</p>\n\n<p>To me, at least, the Toshiba seems to the the most attractive, and the Lenovo is the ugliest.</p>\n\n<p>Asus has amazing customer support, I&rsquo;m not sure about the others.</p>\n\n<h1>Result?</h1>\n\n<p>I really want the Asus. I like the company, and its such a tight little package, quad cores too. The ThinkPad is looking pretty good right now though.</p>\n\n<h2>The elephant in the room</h2>\n\n<blockquote>\n  <p><em>&ldquo;Why not an Apple??&rdquo;</em></p>\n</blockquote>\n\n<p>Well, lets consider it. Here&rsquo;s one that&rsquo;s similarly specced out..</p>\n\n<h2>Apple MacBook Pro</h2>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/50067/Intel-Core-i7-2720QM-Processor-%286M-Cache-2_20-GHz%29\" target=\"_blank\">i7-2720QM</a> 2.2-3.3GHz <em>quad</em>-core</li>\n<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> 128GB SSD</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> Intel HD Graphics 3000 stealing 384MB from your system RAM</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1280x800</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 8GB</p></li>\n<li><strong>Size:</strong> 13.3&quot;</li>\n<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 4.5lbs</li>\n<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong>  7 hours</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1,899.00</p></li>\n</ul><h2>My Evaluation of the &ldquo;Apple Option&rdquo;</h2>\n\n<p>I&rsquo;m going to be dual-booting and running Windows with some unix-y OS, one for Audio/Gaming and the other for development. And I really don&rsquo;t care if its Linux or OSX, I&rsquo;ve used both extensively, and I&rsquo;m using both right now. So OS is not even a factor here.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Same exact CPU as the Toshiba and Lenova</li>\n<li><strong>Storage:</strong> 8GB more? Probably actually the same 120GB Intel SSD.</li>\n<li><strong>Graphics:</strong> On-chip GPU only using &ldquo;shared&rdquo; system RAM. So.. basically useless. All three other systems beat the crap out of it.</li>\n<li><strong>Mobility:</strong> It&rsquo;s about the same as the Lenovo for size, but almost a pound heavier. It is durable and solid though. I carry this MBP around all over and its no big deal. It&rsquo;s lighter than the previous 13&quot; MBP.</li>\n<li><strong>Price:</strong> More expensive than any of the other laptops on the list.</li>\n<li><strong>Bonus Round:</strong> Best multi-touch trackpad in the industry. No eSATA, no HDMI, no expressCard, no USB 3.0, it has an optical drive, and its pretty, and I can use it as a weapon after the apocalypse.</li>\n</ul>","reblog":{"tree_html":"","comment":"<p><blockquote>\n  <p><em>I really hate buying a new laptop, there’s so many options and they’re all crap.</em></p>\n</blockquote>\n\n<p><strong>this post is a work in progress</strong></p>\n\n<h1>The Quest Begins..</h1>\n\n<p>I’ve gone through Lenovo, Toshiba, Asus, Sager, and even Sony’s catalog of notebooks.</p>\n\n<p>During this process I also discovered that HP has a fuckton of laptops on the market right now.</p>\n\n<p>And you know what? <em>Fuck HP</em>.</p>\n\n<h1>What I’m looking for in a computer</h1>\n\n<p>Maybe I’m not looking for what you’re looking for. Probably not in fact, so I’ll just lay it all out here and you can figure it out yourself.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Processing Power</strong></li>\n</ul><p>I need raw CPU power for digital signal processing when I’m working on music and for running processor intensive test suites and development tools.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Storage Speed - SSD</strong></li>\n</ul><p>For the above reasons, disk access and throughput times are critical for what I do.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Mobility</strong></li>\n</ul><p>I am the Digital Nomad, I travel, I move around, I sit at shops and pop open my laptop at bars and restaurants. The internet is what I <strong>do</strong>, so I need to take it with me wherever I may be. That means smaller and lighter.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Graphics</strong></li>\n</ul><p>You know, I like to play video games sometimes, and I have a collection of games on Steam that I’d like to continue playing on my new system. I don’t need something cutting edge, but I’d really like to be able to play games at least as well as my last laptop.</p>\n\n<p>Somehow I managed to pick out three from the herd that seemed to fit my current needs…</p>\n\n<h1>ASUS <a href=\"http://www.xoticpc.com/asus-u36sda1-pre-order-p-3112.html\" target=\"_blank\">U36SD-A1</a></h1>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/50067/Intel-Core-i7-2720QM-Processor-%286M-Cache-2_20-GHz%29\" target=\"_blank\">i7-2720QM</a> 2.2-3.3GHz <em>quad</em>-core</li>\n<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/56576/Intel-SSD-510-Series-%28120GB-2_5in-SATA-6Gbs-34nm-MLC%29\" target=\"_blank\">120GB SSD</a></p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> nVidia <a href=\"http://www.nvidia.com/object/product-geforce-gt-520m-us.html\" target=\"_blank\">GT 520M</a> 1024MB with Optimus (using CPU’s onboard Intel HD Graphics 3000)</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1366x768</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 8GB</p></li>\n<li><strong>Size:</strong> 13.3\"</li>\n<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 3.74lbs</li>\n<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong> 10 hours <em>(probably less due to larger processor than standard)</em></p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1702.35</p></li>\n</ul><h1>Toshiba Tecra <a href=\"http://www.buy.com/prod/toshiba-tecra-r840-s8450-14-0-notebook-intel-core-i7-2620m-2-70ghz-4gb/q/loc/101/221814301.html\" target=\"_blank\">R840-S8450</a></h1>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/52231/Intel-Core-i7-2620M-Processor-%284M-Cache-2_70-GHz%29\" target=\"_blank\">i7-2620M</a> 2.7GHz-3.4GHz dual-core</li>\n<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> I’ll have to get an <a href=\"http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16820167050\" target=\"_blank\">aftermarket SSD</a></p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> Radeon HD <a href=\"http://shop.amd.com/US/_layouts/shop/ProductDetails.aspx?productID=100321DDR5OCL&amp;region=us-en\" target=\"_blank\">6450M</a> 512MB <em>or</em> 1024MB <em>(its unclear to me as to which)</em></p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1600 x 900</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 4GB</p></li>\n<li><strong>Size:</strong> 14\"</li>\n<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 4.19lbs</li>\n<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong> 7.11 hours</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1,609.98 <em>($1,384.99 base price + $224.99 for the SSD)</em></p></li>\n</ul><h1>Lenovo ThinkPad <a href=\"http://www.buy.com/prod/lenovo-thinkpad-t420s-41716ju-14-led-notebook-core-i7-i7-2620m-2-70ghz/q/loc/101/222037288.html\" target=\"_blank\">T420s 41716JU</a></h1>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/52231/Intel-Core-i7-2620M-Processor-%284M-Cache-2_70-GHz%29\" target=\"_blank\">i7-2620M</a> 2.7-3.4GHz dual-core</li>\n<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> Onboard 160GB SSD</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> nVidia <a href=\"http://www.nvidia.com/object/nvs_techspecs.html\" target=\"_blank\">NVS 4200M</a> 1024MB with Optimus (using CPU’s onboard Intel HD Graphics 3000)</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1600 x 900</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 4GB</p></li>\n<li><strong>Size:</strong> 14\"</li>\n<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 3.70lbs</li>\n<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong> 5.5 hours</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1,760.99</p></li>\n</ul><h1>What’s all this then?</h1>\n\n<p>Who wins? Who gets chosen?</p>\n\n<p>I’m still thinking about that, so maybe if I make a list of who wins each category it’ll be easier to make a decision..</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Processing Power</strong></li>\n</ul><p>The Asus? Hard to say. It’s baseline is lower, but its Turbo combined with 2 extra cores seems like it’d blow the other away.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Storage Speed - SSD</strong></li>\n</ul><p>The Lenovo ThinkPad wins here. 160GB SSD is only 40GB more than the 120’s I’d get for the others, but 40GB can be exactly what you need. My only concern is I don’t know what chip or even brand it is. Second place is The Asus, but I could get a better SSD in the Toshiba if I wanted to throw another $1-200 at it.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Graphics</strong></li>\n</ul><p>Much to my surprise the Lenovo Thinkpad’s GPU seems to be the best of the three according to <a href=\"http://www.notebookcheck.net/NVIDIA-NVS-4200M.47343.0.html\" target=\"_blank\">NotebookCheck</a>’s benchmarks. The Toshiba trails so far behind the other two that it doesn’t even show up on the same graph. However the Asus has a lower screen resolution, I suppose to match its more compact size.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Mobility</strong></li>\n</ul><p>The Asus wins for size and weight. Shockingly the Lenovo weighs the same, even with its slightly larger screen. The Toshiba trails here, weighing almost half a pound more.</p>\n\n<p>The Asus is also the thinest.. ridiculously so, it’s only 0.75\" thats only 0.07\" more than the MacBook Air. And the Lenovo is only a bit more at 1\".</p>\n\n<p>However the Lenovo has a 5.5 hour rating, 2 hours less than the Toshiba, and the Asus has a 10 hour rating.. which is likely to plummet after putting in that quad core monstrosity.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Price</strong></li>\n</ul><p>The Toshiba Tecra wins here, clearly. But I’ll still want a total of 8GB RAM before all is said and done and that bumps the price up a bit, and it’ll cost about the same as the others if I get a comparable SSD. That gives the Asus an edge price-wise at least.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Bonus Round!</strong></li>\n</ul><p>Both the Lenovo and the Tecra have PC ExpressCard slots. That means I won’t have to buy a new USB/Firewire Audio Interface. They also have an eSATA port, which is good for my existing external storage device, otherwise I’ll be forced to use USB 2.0 (I bought the external device long before 3.0). Also they each have optical drives.. that will go mostly unused.</p>\n\n<p>Both the Lenovo and the Tecra also have fingerprint scanners and track nubs, for whatever that’s worth.</p>\n\n<p>Actually the price of the Asus includes a thin external optical drive, and I’d rather have it offboard anyway since I’ll so rarely use it.</p>\n\n<p>To me, at least, the Toshiba seems to the the most attractive, and the Lenovo is the ugliest.</p>\n\n<p>Asus has amazing customer support, I’m not sure about the others.</p>\n\n<h1>Result?</h1>\n\n<p>I really want the Asus. I like the company, and its such a tight little package, quad cores too. The ThinkPad is looking pretty good right now though.</p>\n\n<h2>The elephant in the room</h2>\n\n<blockquote>\n  <p><em>“Why not an Apple??”</em></p>\n</blockquote>\n\n<p>Well, lets consider it. Here’s one that’s similarly specced out..</p>\n\n<h2>Apple MacBook Pro</h2>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/50067/Intel-Core-i7-2720QM-Processor-%286M-Cache-2_20-GHz%29\" target=\"_blank\">i7-2720QM</a> 2.2-3.3GHz <em>quad</em>-core</li>\n<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> 128GB SSD</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> Intel HD Graphics 3000 stealing 384MB from your system RAM</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1280x800</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 8GB</p></li>\n<li><strong>Size:</strong> 13.3\"</li>\n<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 4.5lbs</li>\n<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong>  7 hours</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1,899.00</p></li>\n</ul><h2>My Evaluation of the “Apple Option”</h2>\n\n<p>I’m going to be dual-booting and running Windows with some unix-y OS, one for Audio/Gaming and the other for development. And I really don’t care if its Linux or OSX, I’ve used both extensively, and I’m using both right now. So OS is not even a factor here.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Same exact CPU as the Toshiba and Lenova</li>\n<li><strong>Storage:</strong> 8GB more? Probably actually the same 120GB Intel SSD.</li>\n<li><strong>Graphics:</strong> On-chip GPU only using “shared” system RAM. So.. basically useless. All three other systems beat the crap out of it.</li>\n<li><strong>Mobility:</strong> It’s about the same as the Lenovo for size, but almost a pound heavier. It is durable and solid though. I carry this MBP around all over and its no big deal. It’s lighter than the previous 13\" MBP.</li>\n<li><strong>Price:</strong> More expensive than any of the other laptops on the list.</li>\n<li><strong>Bonus Round:</strong> Best multi-touch trackpad in the industry. No eSATA, no HDMI, no expressCard, no USB 3.0, it has an optical drive, and its pretty, and I can use it as a weapon after the apocalypse.</li>\n</ul></p>"},"trail":[{"blog":{"name":"anthonymcook","active":true,"theme":{"avatar_shape":"circle","background_color":"#FAFAFA","body_font":"Helvetica Neue","header_bounds":"","header_image":"https://secure.assets.tumblr.com/images/default_header/optica_pattern_05.png?_v=671444c5f47705cce40d8aefd23df3b1","header_image_focused":"https://secure.assets.tumblr.com/images/default_header/optica_pattern_05_focused_v3.png?_v=671444c5f47705cce40d8aefd23df3b1","header_image_scaled":"https://secure.assets.tumblr.com/images/default_header/optica_pattern_05_focused_v3.png?_v=671444c5f47705cce40d8aefd23df3b1","header_stretch":true,"link_color":"#529ECC","show_avatar":true,"show_description":true,"show_header_image":true,"show_title":true,"title_color":"#444444","title_font":"Gibson","title_font_weight":"bold"}},"post":{"id":"9262718045"},"content_raw":"<p><blockquote>\n  <p><em>I really hate buying a new laptop, there’s so many options and they’re all crap.</em></p>\n</blockquote>\n\n<p><strong>this post is a work in progress</strong></p>\n\n<h1>The Quest Begins..</h1>\n\n<p>I’ve gone through Lenovo, Toshiba, Asus, Sager, and even Sony’s catalog of notebooks.</p>\n\n<p>During this process I also discovered that HP has a fuckton of laptops on the market right now.</p>\n\n<p>And you know what? <em>Fuck HP</em>.</p>\n\n<h1>What I’m looking for in a computer</h1>\n\n<p>Maybe I’m not looking for what you’re looking for. Probably not in fact, so I’ll just lay it all out here and you can figure it out yourself.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Processing Power</strong></li>\n</ul><p>I need raw CPU power for digital signal processing when I’m working on music and for running processor intensive test suites and development tools.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Storage Speed - SSD</strong></li>\n</ul><p>For the above reasons, disk access and throughput times are critical for what I do.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Mobility</strong></li>\n</ul><p>I am the Digital Nomad, I travel, I move around, I sit at shops and pop open my laptop at bars and restaurants. The internet is what I <strong>do</strong>, so I need to take it with me wherever I may be. That means smaller and lighter.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Graphics</strong></li>\n</ul><p>You know, I like to play video games sometimes, and I have a collection of games on Steam that I’d like to continue playing on my new system. I don’t need something cutting edge, but I’d really like to be able to play games at least as well as my last laptop.</p>\n\n<p>Somehow I managed to pick out three from the herd that seemed to fit my current needs…</p>\n\n<h1>ASUS <a href=\"http://www.xoticpc.com/asus-u36sda1-pre-order-p-3112.html\" target=\"_blank\">U36SD-A1</a></h1>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/50067/Intel-Core-i7-2720QM-Processor-%286M-Cache-2_20-GHz%29\" target=\"_blank\">i7-2720QM</a> 2.2-3.3GHz <em>quad</em>-core</li>\n<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/56576/Intel-SSD-510-Series-%28120GB-2_5in-SATA-6Gbs-34nm-MLC%29\" target=\"_blank\">120GB SSD</a></p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> nVidia <a href=\"http://www.nvidia.com/object/product-geforce-gt-520m-us.html\" target=\"_blank\">GT 520M</a> 1024MB with Optimus (using CPU’s onboard Intel HD Graphics 3000)</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1366x768</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 8GB</p></li>\n<li><strong>Size:</strong> 13.3\"</li>\n<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 3.74lbs</li>\n<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong> 10 hours <em>(probably less due to larger processor than standard)</em></p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1702.35</p></li>\n</ul><h1>Toshiba Tecra <a href=\"http://www.buy.com/prod/toshiba-tecra-r840-s8450-14-0-notebook-intel-core-i7-2620m-2-70ghz-4gb/q/loc/101/221814301.html\" target=\"_blank\">R840-S8450</a></h1>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/52231/Intel-Core-i7-2620M-Processor-%284M-Cache-2_70-GHz%29\" target=\"_blank\">i7-2620M</a> 2.7GHz-3.4GHz dual-core</li>\n<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> I’ll have to get an <a href=\"http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16820167050\" target=\"_blank\">aftermarket SSD</a></p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> Radeon HD <a href=\"http://shop.amd.com/US/_layouts/shop/ProductDetails.aspx?productID=100321DDR5OCL&amp;region=us-en\" target=\"_blank\">6450M</a> 512MB <em>or</em> 1024MB <em>(its unclear to me as to which)</em></p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1600 x 900</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 4GB</p></li>\n<li><strong>Size:</strong> 14\"</li>\n<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 4.19lbs</li>\n<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong> 7.11 hours</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1,609.98 <em>($1,384.99 base price + $224.99 for the SSD)</em></p></li>\n</ul><h1>Lenovo ThinkPad <a href=\"http://www.buy.com/prod/lenovo-thinkpad-t420s-41716ju-14-led-notebook-core-i7-i7-2620m-2-70ghz/q/loc/101/222037288.html\" target=\"_blank\">T420s 41716JU</a></h1>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/52231/Intel-Core-i7-2620M-Processor-%284M-Cache-2_70-GHz%29\" target=\"_blank\">i7-2620M</a> 2.7-3.4GHz dual-core</li>\n<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> Onboard 160GB SSD</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> nVidia <a href=\"http://www.nvidia.com/object/nvs_techspecs.html\" target=\"_blank\">NVS 4200M</a> 1024MB with Optimus (using CPU’s onboard Intel HD Graphics 3000)</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1600 x 900</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 4GB</p></li>\n<li><strong>Size:</strong> 14\"</li>\n<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 3.70lbs</li>\n<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong> 5.5 hours</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1,760.99</p></li>\n</ul><h1>What’s all this then?</h1>\n\n<p>Who wins? Who gets chosen?</p>\n\n<p>I’m still thinking about that, so maybe if I make a list of who wins each category it’ll be easier to make a decision..</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Processing Power</strong></li>\n</ul><p>The Asus? Hard to say. It’s baseline is lower, but its Turbo combined with 2 extra cores seems like it’d blow the other away.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Storage Speed - SSD</strong></li>\n</ul><p>The Lenovo ThinkPad wins here. 160GB SSD is only 40GB more than the 120’s I’d get for the others, but 40GB can be exactly what you need. My only concern is I don’t know what chip or even brand it is. Second place is The Asus, but I could get a better SSD in the Toshiba if I wanted to throw another $1-200 at it.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Graphics</strong></li>\n</ul><p>Much to my surprise the Lenovo Thinkpad’s GPU seems to be the best of the three according to <a href=\"http://www.notebookcheck.net/NVIDIA-NVS-4200M.47343.0.html\" target=\"_blank\">NotebookCheck</a>’s benchmarks. The Toshiba trails so far behind the other two that it doesn’t even show up on the same graph. However the Asus has a lower screen resolution, I suppose to match its more compact size.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Mobility</strong></li>\n</ul><p>The Asus wins for size and weight. Shockingly the Lenovo weighs the same, even with its slightly larger screen. The Toshiba trails here, weighing almost half a pound more.</p>\n\n<p>The Asus is also the thinest.. ridiculously so, it’s only 0.75\" thats only 0.07\" more than the MacBook Air. And the Lenovo is only a bit more at 1\".</p>\n\n<p>However the Lenovo has a 5.5 hour rating, 2 hours less than the Toshiba, and the Asus has a 10 hour rating.. which is likely to plummet after putting in that quad core monstrosity.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Price</strong></li>\n</ul><p>The Toshiba Tecra wins here, clearly. But I’ll still want a total of 8GB RAM before all is said and done and that bumps the price up a bit, and it’ll cost about the same as the others if I get a comparable SSD. That gives the Asus an edge price-wise at least.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Bonus Round!</strong></li>\n</ul><p>Both the Lenovo and the Tecra have PC ExpressCard slots. That means I won’t have to buy a new USB/Firewire Audio Interface. They also have an eSATA port, which is good for my existing external storage device, otherwise I’ll be forced to use USB 2.0 (I bought the external device long before 3.0). Also they each have optical drives.. that will go mostly unused.</p>\n\n<p>Both the Lenovo and the Tecra also have fingerprint scanners and track nubs, for whatever that’s worth.</p>\n\n<p>Actually the price of the Asus includes a thin external optical drive, and I’d rather have it offboard anyway since I’ll so rarely use it.</p>\n\n<p>To me, at least, the Toshiba seems to the the most attractive, and the Lenovo is the ugliest.</p>\n\n<p>Asus has amazing customer support, I’m not sure about the others.</p>\n\n<h1>Result?</h1>\n\n<p>I really want the Asus. I like the company, and its such a tight little package, quad cores too. The ThinkPad is looking pretty good right now though.</p>\n\n<h2>The elephant in the room</h2>\n\n<blockquote>\n  <p><em>“Why not an Apple??”</em></p>\n</blockquote>\n\n<p>Well, lets consider it. Here’s one that’s similarly specced out..</p>\n\n<h2>Apple MacBook Pro</h2>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/50067/Intel-Core-i7-2720QM-Processor-%286M-Cache-2_20-GHz%29\" target=\"_blank\">i7-2720QM</a> 2.2-3.3GHz <em>quad</em>-core</li>\n<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> 128GB SSD</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> Intel HD Graphics 3000 stealing 384MB from your system RAM</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1280x800</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 8GB</p></li>\n<li><strong>Size:</strong> 13.3\"</li>\n<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 4.5lbs</li>\n<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong>  7 hours</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1,899.00</p></li>\n</ul><h2>My Evaluation of the “Apple Option”</h2>\n\n<p>I’m going to be dual-booting and running Windows with some unix-y OS, one for Audio/Gaming and the other for development. And I really don’t care if its Linux or OSX, I’ve used both extensively, and I’m using both right now. So OS is not even a factor here.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Same exact CPU as the Toshiba and Lenova</li>\n<li><strong>Storage:</strong> 8GB more? Probably actually the same 120GB Intel SSD.</li>\n<li><strong>Graphics:</strong> On-chip GPU only using “shared” system RAM. So.. basically useless. All three other systems beat the crap out of it.</li>\n<li><strong>Mobility:</strong> It’s about the same as the Lenovo for size, but almost a pound heavier. It is durable and solid though. I carry this MBP around all over and its no big deal. It’s lighter than the previous 13\" MBP.</li>\n<li><strong>Price:</strong> More expensive than any of the other laptops on the list.</li>\n<li><strong>Bonus Round:</strong> Best multi-touch trackpad in the industry. No eSATA, no HDMI, no expressCard, no USB 3.0, it has an optical drive, and its pretty, and I can use it as a weapon after the apocalypse.</li>\n</ul></p>","content":"<p><blockquote>\n  <p><em>I really hate buying a new laptop, there’s so many options and they’re all crap.</em></p>\n</blockquote>\n\n<p><strong>this post is a work in progress</strong></p>\n\n<h1>The Quest Begins..</h1>\n\n<p>I’ve gone through Lenovo, Toshiba, Asus, Sager, and even Sony’s catalog of notebooks.</p>\n\n<p>During this process I also discovered that HP has a fuckton of laptops on the market right now.</p>\n\n<p>And you know what? <em>Fuck HP</em>.</p>\n\n<h1>What I’m looking for in a computer</h1>\n\n<p>Maybe I’m not looking for what you’re looking for. Probably not in fact, so I’ll just lay it all out here and you can figure it out yourself.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Processing Power</strong></li>\n</ul><p>I need raw CPU power for digital signal processing when I’m working on music and for running processor intensive test suites and development tools.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Storage Speed - SSD</strong></li>\n</ul><p>For the above reasons, disk access and throughput times are critical for what I do.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Mobility</strong></li>\n</ul><p>I am the Digital Nomad, I travel, I move around, I sit at shops and pop open my laptop at bars and restaurants. The internet is what I <strong>do</strong>, so I need to take it with me wherever I may be. That means smaller and lighter.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Graphics</strong></li>\n</ul><p>You know, I like to play video games sometimes, and I have a collection of games on Steam that I’d like to continue playing on my new system. I don’t need something cutting edge, but I’d really like to be able to play games at least as well as my last laptop.</p>\n\n<p>Somehow I managed to pick out three from the herd that seemed to fit my current needs…</p>\n\n<h1>ASUS <a href=\"http://www.xoticpc.com/asus-u36sda1-pre-order-p-3112.html\" target=\"_blank\">U36SD-A1</a></h1>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/50067/Intel-Core-i7-2720QM-Processor-%286M-Cache-2_20-GHz%29\" target=\"_blank\">i7-2720QM</a> 2.2-3.3GHz <em>quad</em>-core</li>\n<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/56576/Intel-SSD-510-Series-%28120GB-2_5in-SATA-6Gbs-34nm-MLC%29\" target=\"_blank\">120GB SSD</a></p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> nVidia <a href=\"http://www.nvidia.com/object/product-geforce-gt-520m-us.html\" target=\"_blank\">GT 520M</a> 1024MB with Optimus (using CPU’s onboard Intel HD Graphics 3000)</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1366x768</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 8GB</p></li>\n<li><strong>Size:</strong> 13.3\"</li>\n<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 3.74lbs</li>\n<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong> 10 hours <em>(probably less due to larger processor than standard)</em></p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1702.35</p></li>\n</ul><h1>Toshiba Tecra <a href=\"http://www.buy.com/prod/toshiba-tecra-r840-s8450-14-0-notebook-intel-core-i7-2620m-2-70ghz-4gb/q/loc/101/221814301.html\" target=\"_blank\">R840-S8450</a></h1>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/52231/Intel-Core-i7-2620M-Processor-%284M-Cache-2_70-GHz%29\" target=\"_blank\">i7-2620M</a> 2.7GHz-3.4GHz dual-core</li>\n<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> I’ll have to get an <a href=\"http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16820167050\" target=\"_blank\">aftermarket SSD</a></p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> Radeon HD <a href=\"http://shop.amd.com/US/_layouts/shop/ProductDetails.aspx?productID=100321DDR5OCL&amp;region=us-en\" target=\"_blank\">6450M</a> 512MB <em>or</em> 1024MB <em>(its unclear to me as to which)</em></p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1600 x 900</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 4GB</p></li>\n<li><strong>Size:</strong> 14\"</li>\n<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 4.19lbs</li>\n<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong> 7.11 hours</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1,609.98 <em>($1,384.99 base price + $224.99 for the SSD)</em></p></li>\n</ul><h1>Lenovo ThinkPad <a href=\"http://www.buy.com/prod/lenovo-thinkpad-t420s-41716ju-14-led-notebook-core-i7-i7-2620m-2-70ghz/q/loc/101/222037288.html\" target=\"_blank\">T420s 41716JU</a></h1>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/52231/Intel-Core-i7-2620M-Processor-%284M-Cache-2_70-GHz%29\" target=\"_blank\">i7-2620M</a> 2.7-3.4GHz dual-core</li>\n<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> Onboard 160GB SSD</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> nVidia <a href=\"http://www.nvidia.com/object/nvs_techspecs.html\" target=\"_blank\">NVS 4200M</a> 1024MB with Optimus (using CPU’s onboard Intel HD Graphics 3000)</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1600 x 900</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 4GB</p></li>\n<li><strong>Size:</strong> 14\"</li>\n<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 3.70lbs</li>\n<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong> 5.5 hours</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1,760.99</p></li>\n</ul><h1>What’s all this then?</h1>\n\n<p>Who wins? Who gets chosen?</p>\n\n<p>I’m still thinking about that, so maybe if I make a list of who wins each category it’ll be easier to make a decision..</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Processing Power</strong></li>\n</ul><p>The Asus? Hard to say. It’s baseline is lower, but its Turbo combined with 2 extra cores seems like it’d blow the other away.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Storage Speed - SSD</strong></li>\n</ul><p>The Lenovo ThinkPad wins here. 160GB SSD is only 40GB more than the 120’s I’d get for the others, but 40GB can be exactly what you need. My only concern is I don’t know what chip or even brand it is. Second place is The Asus, but I could get a better SSD in the Toshiba if I wanted to throw another $1-200 at it.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Graphics</strong></li>\n</ul><p>Much to my surprise the Lenovo Thinkpad’s GPU seems to be the best of the three according to <a href=\"http://www.notebookcheck.net/NVIDIA-NVS-4200M.47343.0.html\" target=\"_blank\">NotebookCheck</a>’s benchmarks. The Toshiba trails so far behind the other two that it doesn’t even show up on the same graph. However the Asus has a lower screen resolution, I suppose to match its more compact size.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Mobility</strong></li>\n</ul><p>The Asus wins for size and weight. Shockingly the Lenovo weighs the same, even with its slightly larger screen. The Toshiba trails here, weighing almost half a pound more.</p>\n\n<p>The Asus is also the thinest.. ridiculously so, it’s only 0.75\" thats only 0.07\" more than the MacBook Air. And the Lenovo is only a bit more at 1\".</p>\n\n<p>However the Lenovo has a 5.5 hour rating, 2 hours less than the Toshiba, and the Asus has a 10 hour rating.. which is likely to plummet after putting in that quad core monstrosity.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Price</strong></li>\n</ul><p>The Toshiba Tecra wins here, clearly. But I’ll still want a total of 8GB RAM before all is said and done and that bumps the price up a bit, and it’ll cost about the same as the others if I get a comparable SSD. That gives the Asus an edge price-wise at least.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>Bonus Round!</strong></li>\n</ul><p>Both the Lenovo and the Tecra have PC ExpressCard slots. That means I won’t have to buy a new USB/Firewire Audio Interface. They also have an eSATA port, which is good for my existing external storage device, otherwise I’ll be forced to use USB 2.0 (I bought the external device long before 3.0). Also they each have optical drives.. that will go mostly unused.</p>\n\n<p>Both the Lenovo and the Tecra also have fingerprint scanners and track nubs, for whatever that’s worth.</p>\n\n<p>Actually the price of the Asus includes a thin external optical drive, and I’d rather have it offboard anyway since I’ll so rarely use it.</p>\n\n<p>To me, at least, the Toshiba seems to the the most attractive, and the Lenovo is the ugliest.</p>\n\n<p>Asus has amazing customer support, I’m not sure about the others.</p>\n\n<h1>Result?</h1>\n\n<p>I really want the Asus. I like the company, and its such a tight little package, quad cores too. The ThinkPad is looking pretty good right now though.</p>\n\n<h2>The elephant in the room</h2>\n\n<blockquote>\n  <p><em>“Why not an Apple??”</em></p>\n</blockquote>\n\n<p>Well, lets consider it. Here’s one that’s similarly specced out..</p>\n\n<h2>Apple MacBook Pro</h2>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href=\"http://ark.intel.com/products/50067/Intel-Core-i7-2720QM-Processor-%286M-Cache-2_20-GHz%29\" target=\"_blank\">i7-2720QM</a> 2.2-3.3GHz <em>quad</em>-core</li>\n<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> 128GB SSD</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> Intel HD Graphics 3000 stealing 384MB from your system RAM</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1280x800</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 8GB</p></li>\n<li><strong>Size:</strong> 13.3\"</li>\n<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 4.5lbs</li>\n<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong>  7 hours</p></li>\n<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1,899.00</p></li>\n</ul><h2>My Evaluation of the “Apple Option”</h2>\n\n<p>I’m going to be dual-booting and running Windows with some unix-y OS, one for Audio/Gaming and the other for development. And I really don’t care if its Linux or OSX, I’ve used both extensively, and I’m using both right now. So OS is not even a factor here.</p>\n\n<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Same exact CPU as the Toshiba and Lenova</li>\n<li><strong>Storage:</strong> 8GB more? Probably actually the same 120GB Intel SSD.</li>\n<li><strong>Graphics:</strong> On-chip GPU only using “shared” system RAM. So.. basically useless. All three other systems beat the crap out of it.</li>\n<li><strong>Mobility:</strong> It’s about the same as the Lenovo for size, but almost a pound heavier. It is durable and solid though. I carry this MBP around all over and its no big deal. It’s lighter than the previous 13\" MBP.</li>\n<li><strong>Price:</strong> More expensive than any of the other laptops on the list.</li>\n<li><strong>Bonus Round:</strong> Best multi-touch trackpad in the industry. No eSATA, no HDMI, no expressCard, no USB 3.0, it has an optical drive, and its pretty, and I can use it as a weapon after the apocalypse.</li>\n</ul></p>","is_current_item":true,"is_root_item":true}]}
date: 2011-08-22
draft: true
---


<blockquote>
  <p><em>I really hate buying a new laptop, there&rsquo;s so many options and they&rsquo;re all crap.</em></p>
</blockquote>

<p><strong>this post is a work in progress</strong></p>

<h1>The Quest Begins..</h1>

<p>I&rsquo;ve gone through Lenovo, Toshiba, Asus, Sager, and even Sony&rsquo;s catalog of notebooks.</p>

<p>During this process I also discovered that HP has a fuckton of laptops on the market right now.</p>

<p>And you know what? <em>Fuck HP</em>.</p>

<h1>What I&rsquo;m looking for in a computer</h1>

<p>Maybe I&rsquo;m not looking for what you&rsquo;re looking for. Probably not in fact, so I&rsquo;ll just lay it all out here and you can figure it out yourself.</p>

<ul><li><strong>Processing Power</strong></li>
</ul><p>I need raw CPU power for digital signal processing when I&rsquo;m working on music and for running processor intensive test suites and development tools.</p>

<ul><li><strong>Storage Speed - SSD</strong></li>
</ul><p>For the above reasons, disk access and throughput times are critical for what I do.</p>

<ul><li><strong>Mobility</strong></li>
</ul><p>I am the Digital Nomad, I travel, I move around, I sit at shops and pop open my laptop at bars and restaurants. The internet is what I <strong>do</strong>, so I need to take it with me wherever I may be. That means smaller and lighter.</p>

<ul><li><strong>Graphics</strong></li>
</ul><p>You know, I like to play video games sometimes, and I have a collection of games on Steam that I&rsquo;d like to continue playing on my new system. I don&rsquo;t need something cutting edge, but I&rsquo;d really like to be able to play games at least as well as my last laptop.</p>

<p>Somehow I managed to pick out three from the herd that seemed to fit my current needs&hellip;</p>

<h1>ASUS <a href="http://www.xoticpc.com/asus-u36sda1-pre-order-p-3112.html" target="_blank">U36SD-A1</a></h1>

<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href="http://ark.intel.com/products/50067/Intel-Core-i7-2720QM-Processor-%286M-Cache-2_20-GHz%29" target="_blank">i7-2720QM</a> 2.2-3.3GHz <em>quad</em>-core</li>
<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> Intel <a href="http://ark.intel.com/products/56576/Intel-SSD-510-Series-%28120GB-2_5in-SATA-6Gbs-34nm-MLC%29" target="_blank">120GB SSD</a></p></li>
<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> nVidia <a href="http://www.nvidia.com/object/product-geforce-gt-520m-us.html" target="_blank">GT 520M</a> 1024MB with Optimus (using CPU&rsquo;s onboard Intel HD Graphics 3000)</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1366x768</p></li>
<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 8GB</p></li>
<li><strong>Size:</strong> 13.3&quot;</li>
<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 3.74lbs</li>
<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong> 10 hours <em>(probably less due to larger processor than standard)</em></p></li>
<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1702.35</p></li>
</ul><h1>Toshiba Tecra <a href="http://www.buy.com/prod/toshiba-tecra-r840-s8450-14-0-notebook-intel-core-i7-2620m-2-70ghz-4gb/q/loc/101/221814301.html" target="_blank">R840-S8450</a></h1>

<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href="http://ark.intel.com/products/52231/Intel-Core-i7-2620M-Processor-%284M-Cache-2_70-GHz%29" target="_blank">i7-2620M</a> 2.7GHz-3.4GHz dual-core</li>
<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> I&rsquo;ll have to get an <a href="http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16820167050" target="_blank">aftermarket SSD</a></p></li>
<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> Radeon HD <a href="http://shop.amd.com/US/_layouts/shop/ProductDetails.aspx?productID=100321DDR5OCL&amp;region=us-en" target="_blank">6450M</a> 512MB <em>or</em> 1024MB <em>(its unclear to me as to which)</em></p></li>
<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1600 x 900</p></li>
<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 4GB</p></li>
<li><strong>Size:</strong> 14&quot;</li>
<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 4.19lbs</li>
<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong> 7.11 hours</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1,609.98 <em>($1,384.99 base price + $224.99 for the SSD)</em></p></li>
</ul><h1>Lenovo ThinkPad <a href="http://www.buy.com/prod/lenovo-thinkpad-t420s-41716ju-14-led-notebook-core-i7-i7-2620m-2-70ghz/q/loc/101/222037288.html" target="_blank">T420s 41716JU</a></h1>

<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href="http://ark.intel.com/products/52231/Intel-Core-i7-2620M-Processor-%284M-Cache-2_70-GHz%29" target="_blank">i7-2620M</a> 2.7-3.4GHz dual-core</li>
<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> Onboard 160GB SSD</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> nVidia <a href="http://www.nvidia.com/object/nvs_techspecs.html" target="_blank">NVS 4200M</a> 1024MB with Optimus (using CPU&rsquo;s onboard Intel HD Graphics 3000)</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1600 x 900</p></li>
<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 4GB</p></li>
<li><strong>Size:</strong> 14&quot;</li>
<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 3.70lbs</li>
<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong> 5.5 hours</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1,760.99</p></li>
</ul><h1>What&rsquo;s all this then?</h1>

<p>Who wins? Who gets chosen?</p>

<p>I&rsquo;m still thinking about that, so maybe if I make a list of who wins each category it&rsquo;ll be easier to make a decision..</p>

<ul><li><strong>Processing Power</strong></li>
</ul><p>The Asus? Hard to say. It&rsquo;s baseline is lower, but its Turbo combined with 2 extra cores seems like it&rsquo;d blow the other away.</p>

<ul><li><strong>Storage Speed - SSD</strong></li>
</ul><p>The Lenovo ThinkPad wins here. 160GB SSD is only 40GB more than the 120&rsquo;s I&rsquo;d get for the others, but 40GB can be exactly what you need. My only concern is I don&rsquo;t know what chip or even brand it is. Second place is The Asus, but I could get a better SSD in the Toshiba if I wanted to throw another $1-200 at it.</p>

<ul><li><strong>Graphics</strong></li>
</ul><p>Much to my surprise the Lenovo Thinkpad&rsquo;s GPU seems to be the best of the three according to <a href="http://www.notebookcheck.net/NVIDIA-NVS-4200M.47343.0.html" target="_blank">NotebookCheck</a>&rsquo;s benchmarks. The Toshiba trails so far behind the other two that it doesn&rsquo;t even show up on the same graph. However the Asus has a lower screen resolution, I suppose to match its more compact size.</p>

<ul><li><strong>Mobility</strong></li>
</ul><p>The Asus wins for size and weight. Shockingly the Lenovo weighs the same, even with its slightly larger screen. The Toshiba trails here, weighing almost half a pound more.</p>

<p>The Asus is also the thinest.. ridiculously so, it&rsquo;s only 0.75&quot; thats only 0.07&quot; more than the MacBook Air. And the Lenovo is only a bit more at 1&quot;.</p>

<p>However the Lenovo has a 5.5 hour rating, 2 hours less than the Toshiba, and the Asus has a 10 hour rating.. which is likely to plummet after putting in that quad core monstrosity.</p>

<ul><li><strong>Price</strong></li>
</ul><p>The Toshiba Tecra wins here, clearly. But I&rsquo;ll still want a total of 8GB RAM before all is said and done and that bumps the price up a bit, and it&rsquo;ll cost about the same as the others if I get a comparable SSD. That gives the Asus an edge price-wise at least.</p>

<ul><li><strong>Bonus Round!</strong></li>
</ul><p>Both the Lenovo and the Tecra have PC ExpressCard slots. That means I won&rsquo;t have to buy a new USB/Firewire Audio Interface. They also have an eSATA port, which is good for my existing external storage device, otherwise I&rsquo;ll be forced to use USB 2.0 (I bought the external device long before 3.0). Also they each have optical drives.. that will go mostly unused.</p>

<p>Both the Lenovo and the Tecra also have fingerprint scanners and track nubs, for whatever that&rsquo;s worth.</p>

<p>Actually the price of the Asus includes a thin external optical drive, and I&rsquo;d rather have it offboard anyway since I&rsquo;ll so rarely use it.</p>

<p>To me, at least, the Toshiba seems to the the most attractive, and the Lenovo is the ugliest.</p>

<p>Asus has amazing customer support, I&rsquo;m not sure about the others.</p>

<h1>Result?</h1>

<p>I really want the Asus. I like the company, and its such a tight little package, quad cores too. The ThinkPad is looking pretty good right now though.</p>

<h2>The elephant in the room</h2>

<blockquote>
  <p><em>&ldquo;Why not an Apple??&rdquo;</em></p>
</blockquote>

<p>Well, lets consider it. Here&rsquo;s one that&rsquo;s similarly specced out..</p>

<h2>Apple MacBook Pro</h2>

<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Intel <a href="http://ark.intel.com/products/50067/Intel-Core-i7-2720QM-Processor-%286M-Cache-2_20-GHz%29" target="_blank">i7-2720QM</a> 2.2-3.3GHz <em>quad</em>-core</li>
<li><p><strong>Storage:</strong> 128GB SSD</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Graphics:</strong> Intel HD Graphics 3000 stealing 384MB from your system RAM</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Resolution:</strong> 1280x800</p></li>
<li><p><strong>RAM:</strong> 8GB</p></li>
<li><strong>Size:</strong> 13.3&quot;</li>
<li><strong>Weight:</strong> 4.5lbs</li>
<li><p><strong>Battery Life:</strong>  7 hours</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Total:</strong> $1,899.00</p></li>
</ul><h2>My Evaluation of the &ldquo;Apple Option&rdquo;</h2>

<p>I&rsquo;m going to be dual-booting and running Windows with some unix-y OS, one for Audio/Gaming and the other for development. And I really don&rsquo;t care if its Linux or OSX, I&rsquo;ve used both extensively, and I&rsquo;m using both right now. So OS is not even a factor here.</p>

<ul><li><strong>CPU:</strong> Same exact CPU as the Toshiba and Lenova</li>
<li><strong>Storage:</strong> 8GB more? Probably actually the same 120GB Intel SSD.</li>
<li><strong>Graphics:</strong> On-chip GPU only using &ldquo;shared&rdquo; system RAM. So.. basically useless. All three other systems beat the crap out of it.</li>
<li><strong>Mobility:</strong> It&rsquo;s about the same as the Lenovo for size, but almost a pound heavier. It is durable and solid though. I carry this MBP around all over and its no big deal. It&rsquo;s lighter than the previous 13&quot; MBP.</li>
<li><strong>Price:</strong> More expensive than any of the other laptops on the list.</li>
<li><strong>Bonus Round:</strong> Best multi-touch trackpad in the industry. No eSATA, no HDMI, no expressCard, no USB 3.0, it has an optical drive, and its pretty, and I can use it as a weapon after the apocalypse.</li>
</ul>
